---
layout: post
category: MANN
subcategory: "MANN"
title: "Multi-Agent Neural Network Installation"
ordinal: 1
date: 2012-05-22 16:25:06 -0700
comments: true
---
<!--break-->

Make sure you `ssh` into snowmane using the `-X` flag.  Note it is a capital letter 'X'

    ssh -X chend@snowmane.vbi.vt.edu`

## Pre-requisite Knowledge
At a minimum you should know how to navigate a *nix file system without a graphical user interface (GUI).
This means, a knowledge of the following *nix commands:

  * `pwd` : to print the current working directory (aka, where am i now)
  * `cd` : to change directories
  * `ls` : to list the contents of the current directory
  * `mkdir` : create a new folder
  * `mv` : to move files/folders
  * `cp` : to copy files/folders
  * `nano` : to do basic file edits

If you need a refresher.  The first 3 lessons in the [Software Carpentry Unix Shell](http://software-carpentry.org/v5/novice/shell/index.html) should be all you need.

## Installation/Setup
Make sure you have a `code` folder in your home directory.
You can create one by typing:

    cd ~
    mkdir code

### Installing Python
make sure you get the latest Python 3 version of Anaconda [here](http://continuum.io/downloads#py34).
At the time of writing this wiki, the version of Anaconda for Python 3 is `http://repo.continuum.io/anaconda3/Anaconda3-2.1.0-Linux-x86_64.sh`

Install Anaconda:
    cd ~/code
    wget http://repo.continuum.io/anaconda3/Anaconda3-2.1.0-Linux-x86_64.sh
    bash Anaconda3-2.1.0-Linux-x86_64.sh
If it prompts you keep saying `yes` and/or hit `Enter` on your keyboard.

At the end of the installation if you type `which python` it should direct you to `~/anaconda3/bin/python`

### Installing/Updating MANN
The multi-agent-neural-network (mann) python package can be found [here](https://github.com/chendaniely/multi-agent-neural-network).  However it should already be on in snowmane in the following directory:

`/home/sdal/mann/data/git/multi-agent-neural-network`

you can get to this directory by typing:

    cd /home/sdal/mann/data/git/multi-agent-neural-network


when you are in the `mann` directory, to install it (or any updates) run `python setup.py install` to install the python module

### Installing LENS
The official lens documentation can be found [here](http://web.stanford.edu/group/mbc/LENSManual/)

There is an `lens_install.sh` shell script to install lens in the `mann` directory.
Run the script to install LENS

    bash lens_install.sh

after you install LENS, you can see if your installation worked by typing `lens` in the terminal

If that works, save the lens variables in your `.bashrc` file.

    cd ~
    nano .bashrc

save the following lines to the bottom of the file:

    export LENSDIR=~/code/Lens      # or wherever Lens is installed
    export HOSTTYPE=x86_64-linux    # same as above during make
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=${LD_LIBRARY_PATH}:${LENSDIR}/Bin/${HOSTTYPE}
    export PATH=${PATH}:${LENSDIR}/Bin/${HOSTTYPE}
